*The Python code is in the file titled: TYNK*

A large number of pediatric urology patients struggle with daytime wetting, bedwetting, frequency, urgency, urinary tract infections and other urinary symptoms. Often these urinary issues are a result of dysfunctional voiding, where the child has trained their pelvic floor muscles to hold and NOT to relax, causing them to hold urine longer and not to empty their bladder completely. Biofeedback is a successful treatment option that teaches children how to retrain these muscles and relax their pelvic floor during urination. During a typical biofeedback session, stickers (electrode patches) are placed on the child’s abdomen and buttocks. These are then connected to a computer. The child is taught to squeeze and relax their pelvic floor, during which the electrodes send signals to the computer program. This information is turned into moveable pictures that the child can see on the computer. By seeing these changes, the child learns what their muscles are doing. As they change what their muscles are doing, the feedback on the computer also changes. Usually, children need 5 to 10 sessions to learn how to relax their pelvic floor muscles and improve emptying their bladder. Currently this must be done in the Urology clinic at Akron Children’s Hospital downtown, where the computer program is located. As a result, biofeedback requires a significant time commitment, often requiring the child to repeatedly leave/miss school, parent’s take-off work, and/or repeatedly travel a long distance for biofeedback sessions. Parents may choose for their child to not even attempt biofeedback for these reasons. Overall Goal: The goal would be to create a biofeedback device that children can use at home to practice exercising their pelvic musculature. The device should be easy to use (for children and their caregivers) as well as portable. It should be non-invasive and able to communicate data in real-time to a kid-friendly smartphone app.
